Why is Canada populated at all?
Why are there people in Canada?
I don't understand.
(upbeat music)
Long time no talk.
- Yeah, I know, you skipped last week.
- I skipped last week.
- Bitch.
- So. (laughing)
That's funny.
We had to replace you with someone.
So I wasn't here talking to myself.
- Yeah, that sounds more fun, really.
I'm sure people enjoyed that.
You're welcome, everybody.
I'll skip more.
(laughing)
Not really, I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding.
I feel like if I threaten that,
people are gonna freak out.
Sometimes I do just think like,
is this the slow fade?
Am I not gonna disappear?
I'm just gonna slowly fade out of the internet
and all of my friends.
- Adam, this is literally the guy
that made that bingo card of our podcast.
This is like, is this one of the things I said?
- This is like one of the things.
(laughing)
- Oh, let's try new stuff.
- It's like, I'm just trying to do the internet.
- Yeah, let's try new material.
I mean, I don't wanna go back to the bingo card,
but I really do need you to catch me up on months.
- It makes sense.
(laughing)
That's just one of the things I need from you
in this relationship.
- Has anything happened?
I don't know.
What's new?
- Yeah, maybe nothing.
That's fine.
That's actually great.
- I guess the main thing was
Beats finally announced their round,
which they closed a long time ago,
but I didn't go public.
Yeah.
- Yeah, so how's that work?
I mean, in the sense that like,
Evan is doing a lot of things.
So, Beat is like a company?
- Well, they established a new company called Void Zero
and their goal is to make a unified JavaScript tool chain.
- Okay.
- Which, I think if,
puts them in the same category as BUN, more or less,
I think that's like a hundred, almost near overlap.
- Like computing the runtime.
- BUN?
- I think BUN is a super set in a lot of ways.
Like I think BUN would consider,
even if they're not focusing on the same things right now,
I think BUN would consider everything Void Zero
is doing as something they eventually wanna do.
I don't think Void Zero is gonna build
a JavaScript runtime.
I don't think that's outside of their scope.
- Okay, so BUN has executed really well.
Are they gonna have similar business models
or have either of them picked a business model?
They've both raised money.
- I went on PrimeStream a bit to talk about this a bit
because I'll just give you this bill real quick.
So, with a lot of these projects,
these like open source projects that are very free
and like fundamentally need to be open source and free,
the question of like, what's a business model always comes up?
And that's a valid question.
But the point I made was,
I don't know if we talked about this already,
but these are venture scale companies
very different than a traditional company.
The example I gave was,
if search engines didn't exist
and someone invented a search engine today,
people would ask what's a business model.
And the company would be like,
oh yeah, we'll give you like 10 free searches a day.
And then if you want to go over that,
we'll charge you $10 a month, right?
And you would probably make a lot of money doing that,
especially if it's as good as Google is
and there was no other search engine.
But it would never be a product
that every single person in the world used.
- Yeah, right.
- Like there's natural friction with the paid tier.
And eventually someone would build a version
that's not paid.
And if you do build the version that's not paid
and everyone in the world starts to use it,
you now have this opportunity to build
a like trillion dollar ads business, right?
Which is really, really hard to imagine ahead of time.
Like it's so hard to imagine like if every single thing,
if we capture 100% of market,
like what are the business models?
Like none of us would have come up with,
like Google just serves as not on their own properties,
but like across the whole internet and other sites,
like it's like a giant, giant business
that came out of this thing.
And it feels like really random and unrelated.
So with these companies,
the question isn't really what's a business model.
The question is, do they have a big enough goal?
In Bun's case, it's every piece of JavaScript,
every executed should happen inside Bun.
That's a really big goal.
I can see that, I can see that potentially.
Same with void zero, like their goal is,
all JavaScript builds anything like pre-run time,
building, linting, whatever.
That should all run through their tooling.
And if they get to that level,
there's probably going to be interesting business models
that open up, it's going to be hard if they invent them.
Like there's companies like Docker that got to that level
and then like really struggled
to figure out how to invent the business model.
But the moment Docker did find something,
they went from like zero to 100 million AR in a year.
So it's just like, that's kind of
what venture scale stuff is.
Like it's really hard to see business model upfront,
but when you crack it, it's like boom.
So to be fair, I don't know if this stuff
is actually going to work out, I'm not saying that it will,
but yeah, it's just very unclear right now.
And, but that's like just not the question.
The question is like, can they actually grow to that level?
- Yeah.
Yeah, I think all that tracks for me,
if it weren't DevTools.
I just feel like the DevTools part is this quite,
I mean, Docker is an example.
The aren't, isn't Docker struggling?
Like everybody uses Docker,
but doesn't Docker like have all these issues
and they have to put all these restrictions
because of, I mean, the nature of images and bandwidth
is unfortunate.
So maybe that's inherent to their type of business
or their tool.
But are they struggling?
Did they make it?
Because everybody uses Docker.
- I think for a very long time, yeah, it's an interesting story.
They're actually a really interesting story
where anyone has wanted to understand there's like some
write up about their whole business history.
And it's a, if anyone wants to understand this space,
it basically captures every type of thing that can happen.
So they did the impossible.
They made something that like changed the world.
Like every single, like Docker is massively impactful.
Totally changed how we deploy stuff.
It's everywhere, everywhere, everywhere.
But the immediate winners were incumbents.
Google Cloud, AWS, like all the big cloud just added it.
They were at the distribution at Docker support.
Docker does not see really a penny of any of that.
- Yep.
- So Docker struggled for a long time.
And then it seemed like they're about to go under
and then they just really focused on Docker for desktop,
I think, which is like really weird.
I don't really understand it.
And they like just sold.
- I just hate it on my Mac.
I just hate Docker for desktop.
So that's why I laughed.
- I mean, I don't know if it's a good product,
but it was just an angle that they could take
that the big clouds would never.
And that's where they made a bunch of money.
Is that like super long-term sustainable?
I don't know, but they did hit a hundred million ARR
with that, which justifies a billion,
multi-billion dollar valuation.
- Yeah, okay.
- It's hard.
'Cause they had to do two things, right?
They had to do the first impossible thing
that somehow capture value dodging
all the big giant companies trying to get there before you.
And they did.
They're always gonna get there before you.
Even if they get there later,
they're just gonna win, like BUN, for example,
the same situation.
If BUN becomes the fault way people do JavaScript,
obviously Google, AWS, we're gonna have support for it.
So it's gonna be tricky, but yeah, it creates, it's hard.
- Everywhere the JavaScript runs,
except for the browser, right?
- Except for the browser, yeah.
- So the browser still has its own thing,
but all the backend JavaScript being BUN,
and all the local development tool chain,
that's the BUN goal.
And then we're gonna have ads in our terminal.
I'm just saying, we'll see.
- Maybe that's not very imaginative of me.
(laughing)
- Yeah, I mean, who's to say?
Like, the void zero thing,
like the most obvious path for them is,
if they are handling all these like heavy, crazy builds,
giant companies need like really, really good caching systems
and typically pay for them, or willing to pay for them.
So they could build like a service that matches that.
Again, I don't know if that's a venture scale thing,
but it's like not totally out of the question
that there's ways that even now we could imagine
what they could do.
But again, there's not the goal.
There's no point in monetizing something
that doesn't win when it comes to venture scale.
So try to win first.
- Interesting.
- Try to win.
I mean, yeah, that makes sense.
I guess I said the dead tools thing,
and then I forgot SSD is also the same situation.
Yeah.
So I'm not saying--
- That's why I know it's like, I have mixed feelings,
'cause I know how unlikely and hard and difficult it is
and how, I think the problem actually
is that everything I just described,
I actually don't even know if the founders in this space
understand what this is what they signed up for.
I technically didn't when I joined SSD
and I understood this a lot better a couple years ago.
But yeah, if you don't understand this,
then what you're gonna do is like focus
on like the business model too early
and then it turns out like your product isn't even win
and like the whole thing is always the time.
- Yeah.
- Mm.
- Yeah, what we, I mean, Stammie's is like consumer.
It's a sports statistics website, though.
(laughing)
- I love Bingo Card.
- I love Bingo.
- Like we were pre-revenue for like five, six years,
something like that, but it's like different
'cause it's a consumer website.
And I think--
- So different, that tool is like very,
I would say that tool is close to B2C companies.
- Yeah, I guess so.
Yeah, I guess so.
There's a lot of developers.
Yeah, I don't know where I was going with that,
but like we were, it was like very fun to be pre-revenue
because nobody judged your revenue
when you don't have revenue
and we could just kind of keep not having revenue.
But I feel like it was very predictable that like,
we're gonna have ads on a website.
It's just how it works.
We have a lot of traffic on our website.
Now we have ads on the website.
We didn't get more creative than that, I guess.
Not yet.
- Yeah, but I mean, if it works, it works.
- Yeah.
- But yeah, exactly.
Like I think there's like a over rotation on,
it's just, I think when you're in,
when you're observing some of these things,
I feel like you get the right conclusion, but not really, right?
So we had a period of time where there was these like,
really big blowups of like overfunded companies
that just never had a business model and never made sense.
And a lot of people witnessed that.
So now there's like this thing of like,
anytime they see a company saying something like,
pre-revenue or like, we'll worry about the business model
later, they're like, oh, it's one of those.
It's gonna like blow up and fail, but.
- And dev tools in particular had a lot of money.
It was a very hot VC segment.
So I think there's also like tangential,
but not completely the same blowback on dev tool stuff
for that reason.
Like there's like venture scale across all the industries
has its own taint from, is that a word I can say?
I don't know, is that a bad word?
I feel like somebody's technically a fine word
that also has more intense meaning.
- An urban dictionary meaning?
- Okay.
Like venture scale as a term and as a concept
was tainted by lots of free money.
But then dev tools, if you're a developer,
you've kind of like soured on some things about dev tools
because of poor usage of venture money
or like memeable usage of venture money
over the last few years and that still goes on.
So yeah, it's kind of a double whammy.
When I hear like venture scale dev tools,
I just, I think of all the negatives of both sides.
- Yeah.
- It's not fair though.
- I mean, it's just easy to remember the negatives
and forget the pauses 'cause the ones that win
become so normal that you like just don't ever think
about them that hard.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Again, Docker venture funded.
All the HashiCorp stuff venture funded.
Like ghosty technically wouldn't exist unless,
you know, he had a nice exit where he can kind of focus
on that. - That's true.
- All the HashiCorp stuff is really great.
Like, like, tire form, a bunch of things like that.
So yeah, just so the ones that are good do the thing,
that's hard, which is you become invisible
'cause you're just like a default.
- Yeah, and nobody talks about it.
Yeah, that makes sense.
- Yeah, some of this stuff is really crazy.
Like we were talking internally yesterday about like,
okay, if our growth continues,
what will our competition look like?
'Cause we start to eat into places that technically
are competitive with companies we aren't competing with today.
And it is funny dynamic where it's only a problem
once you start making money, like a lot of money.
Otherwise people just look at you as like,
oh, that's a cute project.
Even if you're growing a ton and become really popular,
they'll like not really copy you or try to like stop it.
- Yeah.
- So there's a lot of benefit to staying small
with your revenue for as long as possible
'cause it catches the competition off-guard
as we're spending into their markets.
'Cause like a big established company
is never gonna be like, oh, this like open source projects
is getting really popular.
We need to make sure we clone it.
There's be like, what do you mean?
Like they're not making any money.
Why would we waste time on that?
By the time they see it,
by the time it actually starts to impact them,
it's like too late.
So yeah, there's a lot of funny dynamics
with being pre-revenue of some like advantages
or low revenue rather.
- Speaking of pre-revenue.
Can you catch me up on the hurricane?
(laughing)
There's like, there's a big hurricane hitting today.
- Sorry, yes.
- Known for my transitions.
- Yeah, it's funny.
- Is it hitting? - Yeah.
- No, they keep pushing the landfall time further and further.
Hurricanes move slow.
- Yeah, I think I've caught that.
- Do you know the speed of a hurricane
like in terms of how fast it travels?
- No, like across the ocean.
- Yeah, 'cause you always hear like wind speeds
of 165 miles an hour,
but the hurricane itself is moving
at like below 10 miles an hour.
- Are you serious?
Wow. - It's so slow.
- Yeah, does it speed up or slow down
when it gets over land?
- So land absorbs a lot of the hurricane's power.
So you'll see as it hits land it like weekends.
But right now it's so forecast to hit Tampa,
I'm not gonna be affected by the case.
- It's like a category four now.
I just googled it.
- It went from five to four to five again.
They think when it hits, it'll be a three.
- Oh, okay.
- That's better than a five, right?
It goes that direction.
- Yeah.
- It's weird because it's almost like binary.
There's just a bunch of structures
that are still not able to deal with any kind of hurricane.
And when they get a direct hit,
all those structures are affected.
- It blows my mind actually,
whenever something like this is about to happen
and they point out it's been like 100 years
since Tampa has been direct hit.
It's like in the Gulf of Mexico, how is that possible?
I feel like hurricanes are like constant
in the hurricane season.
- There's this feeling, there's like this,
I feel like I wish I could communicate properly.
When you see all these hurricanes flying around,
it feels like you're just like,
it feels like you're playing dodgeball
and like the ball is just like flying around you
and somehow you're not hitting.
- Like meow, where the bullets are just dodging.
- But it's funny though, 'cause like the hurricanes,
sometimes have crazy paths, right?
Like this hurricane started in the Gulf,
which I like didn't even know was a thing.
Like it can start from the left side.
Like what the hell that all came from.
- It's like, oh, I didn't know that didn't happen.
Yeah, okay.
- I mean, I guess they do, I just never.
I don't even know if they typical,
I just never realized that.
But like the last one, I think it was last year,
it was gonna hit Tampa,
but then I think it went south and hit Naples.
- Yeah.
- It came from the right, like hooked around
and it came back and then hit.
- I think I saw that, yeah, I saw the path of that one.
- Yeah, so it feels like someone's throwing
these like crazy trick shots, like at the US.
- The, we just had one, right?
The Asheville situation's super bad,
which is crazy 'cause it's so inland
and it makes me rethink all of my like,
I'm safe from hurricanes in the Midwest.
'Cause like Asheville's in the mid, not Midwest,
but it's like, I guess it was like a damn situation.
- Yeah.
- Like it was like over flooding in the mountains,
washed out the city, basically.
- Yeah, exactly.
I mean, that's what's funny, it's like random canals,
which are like everywhere.
- Yeah.
- Even if you're not by the coast,
we'll just overflow and then cause all these problems.
- Yeah, I wanted to look up,
I feel like there's probably like a list of cities
that there's like possibility of catastrophe
if a dam breaks, like cities that are downriver from a dam.
It's probably way too many.
It's kind of like when Katrina happened so, so long ago,
it's like, why do we have cities that like rely
on structures to stay out of the sea?
Like what are levees and why did we build them?
Why not just not build a city there?
Like why don't we just go out and build the Atlantic Ocean,
like build a big like tunnel and be like, here we go.
Let's put a city here.
Why do we do this?
I don't understand it.
Or did it start out higher above sea level
and then it just like the water rose?
- Yeah, I think the reality is historically
there was no possibility for any kind of wealth
unless you were a port and you could tap into trade.
So every major city just on the water
and now there's like a side effect
of that is you're exposed to any kind of water,
natural disaster.
- Is that why we're so poor in the Ozarks?
There's no ports here.
Turned out, we're all.
- Yeah, I think, maybe.
- What major city is?
- Like wealthy and like Teddy Lee, Chicago,
but isn't Chicago, Chicago has a port.
- Yeah, yeah, I mean the Great Lakes, so they, I don't know.
- But like, didn't they use that to trade with like,
I don't know, I'm not making some shit up.
- No, probably.
- So there's some Canada or something.
(laughing)
- Maple syrup, I don't know.
- There's like a time where like,
everybody was like stopping around in the Canadian woods
like trapping raccoons and shit, like.
(laughing)
- It's funny.
- Yeah, I guess they probably do have ports in Chicago.
I mean, why would they be on the water otherwise?
Like, what's the point?
- Yeah, and even things like Philadelphia,
like it's on the river so they could trade up a pound.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
That makes sense, I guess that makes sense.
- That said, humans, I've always felt,
the thing you were saying, like,
why did we establish a thing there?
I feel this way about the whole earth in general.
Like, if you look at the whole earth,
there's clearly places that are way nicer to live
where the food's more abundant.
Why are a bunch of humans in the middle of the desert?
Like, how did-
- Why is Canada populated at all?
(laughing)
Why are there people in Canada?
I don't understand.
- We're just like, we'll live anywhere
and we'll just make it work or not.
People aren't just like-
- It's really true, yeah.
- Yeah.
- I mean, some people just want their space, I guess.
Like, they just like don't wanna be where everybody else is.
- Even then, like, it's crazy to me that
like, there's so many crazy cities in the Middle East.
Oh, I guess there's oil there now, which is what?
- Um, oil.
- Don't those cities, but even historically, right?
Like, I mean, all the ancient cities,
isn't like the original, like, Mesopotamia,
it's not like, actually no, that was on a river,
so that makes sense.
But yeah, I just feel like there's like the desert case,
but then there's also, like, the really cold,
like, Scandinavian, like Northern area.
- Yeah, what are they doing there?
- Why did you guys go all the way up there?
- Yeah.
- What are you following?
(laughing)
- Yaks or something?
- Yeah, I know.
- I started playing risk with my nine-year-old.
We got it out, grandma still had it, my mom.
Risk is so fun.
Have you played risk in a long time, 'cause it's so fun.
- Is it fun one-on-one?
- Not as fun, but I didn't know this.
I, growing up, we played one-on-one all the time,
me and actually me and my co-founder of Stat Muse,
we grew up together, and we played risk all the time,
and I'm pretty sure we played one-on-one all the time,
never did this, but there's, like, a neutral,
you set, like, neutral armies up.
There's, like, a third player,
but, like, you both control it.
That's how you play one-on-one, and it makes it better.
That's how me and my son have been playing.
We gotta talk the other two into it, though.
My other son and my wife need to just play with us,
'cause that would be more fun, but he's five,
so he's probably gonna be into it.
- Yeah, I think it's challenging,
but your wife is a little older than five.
- Listen, you wanna control a whole continent.
Yeah, my wife is old enough.
Yeah, we could just stay up late
with my nine-year-old, but it'd be fun.
Yeah, risk is great.
Old board games, good stuff.
Who is it that's really into board,
is Chris into board games?
Did I make that up?
Somebody, oh, we talked about Python.
- I've met a lot of people recently
that are super into board games.
- Yeah.
- And I wanna get more into it.
I actually have one here that I borrow that I need to play.
- Yeah, 'cause we go to Target and all of 'em are garbage.
Like, you just look at the wall of 'em, they're all bad.
- That's what's so crazy.
Like, I don't know why I never put this together.
It's like all the ones that we know,
but even risk, this is fun,
but it's not like someone like tried really, really hard
to come up with, like the coolest thing ever,
and there's like a whole world of that,
of people that have tried that hard.
- Like they figured out how to make really good board games.
- Yeah, like there's board games that take like an hour
to set up and you play over several days,
and you need to like leave it. - That's crazy.
- Like Monopoly.
(laughing)
- But like never finished a game
with Monopoly, you have more fun.
(laughing)
- Yeah, Monopoly, I feel like literally,
I think it's actually a very bad game,
and the only thing it has going for it is like the money
feels so cool and fun,
and I think that's the only reason anyone has ever like,
oh, let's get Monopoly or let's play Monopoly.
But the game actually so much.
- Yeah, we're driven by, yeah, no, I get that.
- The game of life also has money.
It's not really as popular.
I do feel like there's a certain like,
lore around Monopoly,
or it's just like embedded enough into the pop culture.
Oddly enough, they apparently knew what they're doing
when they did the McDonald's stuff.
'Cause I feel like I like Monopoly more
because of my memories of peeling out those stickers
off McDonald's cups, you know what I'm talking about?
I'm collecting it. - Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Like was that Monopoly like paying McDonald's, I guess,
to be- - That's a really good question.
- Like some promotion, how did that work?
- They just were trying to like get exposure.
- I think McDonald's might have played Monopoly,
paid Monopoly.
- Paid Monopoly for the rights.
See, it's interesting 'cause that could go either way.
Like when it comes to a deal like that,
like I could see either side benefiting like McDonald's.
- But who has, like Monopoly's not gonna move more.
Like, that's what I'm saying.
It doesn't make sense that they would advertise
on McDonald's cups like so people would buy Monopoly
'cause they're barely owns Monopoly.
Well, that's a great point.
Like, what does they have nothing to gain?
- They're just IP.
But that's interesting to think of Monopoly as IP,
as like Marvel characters.
You know what I mean?
- That is true, yeah.
- Like that McDonald's is like,
"Hey, you know what would give us some credibility?"
Monopoly.
That's just funny. (laughs)
And who owns Monopoly?
I guess Hasbro or something.
Like there's this one company that owns all the board games.
- Oh, that's a good question.
- Like who did like a startup create Monopoly
and then sell the Hasbro?
Like how does that work?
- Hasbro has owned the rights to Monopoly since '91
when it acquired Parker Brothers, the maker of the game.
- Parker Brothers, I've heard of this.
I just started typing in like a live code playground,
Parker Brothers.
- I just saw a picture of the Monopoly board
and just like, it just brought the crazy memories.
- Yeah.
You ever played Monopoly Go?
- Oh, is it like a mix of?
- It's like a card game.
It's like a shorter version of Monopoly.
It's kind of got the feel of Monopoly, but it's like,
oh, that just reminded me.
It's like the Apple Store ad just popped up.
If you ever played like digital Monopoly, that's fun.
Cause it's like animated and there's like the cars driving
and like blowing exhaust and stuff.
Yeah, good times.
There's like a million different Monoples like every,
so they're licensing IP.
There's just so much money flowing around
when it comes to Monopoly.
Like Monopoly apparently is paying Harry Potter,
the franchise to like get rights to their,
that's so interesting to me.
- It must be like a rub share though.
- Yeah, cause like Harry Potter benefits from it, I guess.
But does, I don't know,
but something like Harry Potter, like they're on everything.
Do they need more exposure?
- No, no, I think it's just ways to sell more stuff.
Like if I own Harry Potter the brand,
I'm just going to like partner with every single product maker
to slot my shit on it.
- So just sell more stuff.
Do you ever think about that though?
Like your, your, what's her name?
- Who's the lady that wrote Harry Potter?
- Tiki Rowling.
- Yes, you're JK Rowling.
I'm assuming she owns most of the Harry Potter enterprises
or whatever.
You know, maybe she doesn't share holders now.
But like she has this giant empire that is Harry Potter
and she's made more money
than she could ever need or spend.
Do you think she like thinks about like,
oh, if we move into China with this stupid product,
we could sell, you know, like $10 million next quarter.
Does she care?
Like at this point, who cares at this point?
Like how much product they move?
- Yeah, it must just be like the Disney machine.
That's just like, she's like not really-
- This is so good at consumer products.
- Oh, you know what?
Does Disney own Harry Potter?
No, they don't own Harry Potter.
They bought everything else.
- No, but Marvel, Lucas Zone, they know.
- I'm pretty sure Disney is like their publisher
or like the equivalent 'cause like-
- Oh geez, so complicated.
- Oh, is it universal?
- Oh, yes, 'cause Universal Studios-
- 'Cause they have, they have the-
- They have, yes, Universal.
It's not a-
- Yeah, yeah.
- Which it makes sense 'cause that's who did the movies.
- Yeah, I think so.
- So they are remaking Harry Potter as an HBO TV show.
- And we're old enough to remake Harry Potter?
- I really don't see how this is a good idea
because the original Harry Potter movies-
- Yes, different actors.
- Oh, no, we don't do this.
- The original Harry movies were very good.
You can watch them today and they don't feel outdated-
- Still good.
- That they show them to someone new,
and they don't feel outdated.
- Uh-huh.
- And I feel like this can really only be worse.
- Yeah, how's it gonna happen?
- And I don't wanna, we've all seen the stories-
like a billion times already.
- Why do this?
This is like when there's a new Spider-Man.
Every time I hear there's a new Spider-Man,
and we've talked about this on the podcast at some point,
because every time I hear there's a new Spider-Man,
it's like, I don't know if it's a continuation
of some story or they're like going back
to the first one again.
It's like every 10 years, they don't wait that long.
They're like, new Spider-Man, it's the new actor
that everybody knows, and like, look, we did it again.
I don't get the whole, like, it really,
people make fun of Hollywood for like,
not coming up with new stuff, but it really is true.
Like, they really just keep remaking the same stuff,
and it's kind of cringe.
I just use old cringe in a sentence, that was awesome.
(laughing)
- I mean, I've been thinking about this a bit,
and I've seen some people in Hollywood talk about it,
and it's so funny.
It's like the same thing that happens in business,
which is eventually organizations
just become crazy risk-averse
to an irrational degree, right?
So if I am someone that's gonna produce,
I work in a movie studio, I'm gonna produce a movie.
If it fails, that looks really bad on me.
But if I attach it to some existing IP,
nobody could say that it was a bad decision.
'Cause like, there's like a perceived safety net of like,
well, I wasn't taking some crazy risk,
I was just like betting on a sure thing, you know?
So there's been so many cases that I've heard of
where there will be a script, brand new concept, new script,
they will take the script and attach it randomly
to some existing thing, just so it feels like more de-risk.
- So, I mean, I know I'm sure I do it too.
It's probably like some human nature thing
in the right situation, I would do the exact same thing.
But it just makes your soul die a little bit.
You just want people, like it makes us,
I think that's why we look up to the people
who've taken huge risks.
It's like, even if they have flaws
and you don't like that person,
like there's something about, I don't know,
real artists, you know, people who step out there.
- This just reminded me of a thing in the NFL,
this whole idea of just avoiding risk at all costs,
even at the detriment, like the New York Jets,
they're doing poorly, they just fired their coach,
they're kind of in the news.
But before they fired the coach, it's like this year,
they're all in on this organization,
like the GM and the head coach,
if they don't win this year, if they don't do well,
they're all gonna get fired,
they all know they're losing their jobs.
So they all just like go for broke
and they hire all these really old people
with bad injury history.
And it's like everybody knows this is not best
for the New York Jets for the next five years,
but it's like, all that matters is the people
making the decisions are trying to keep their job this year.
So it's like, that reminds me of something we've talked about
where it's like, the people who make the decision
can just completely jeopardize the future
because it only matters to them right now.
Is it monetary policy?
What is it?
We've talked about this.
- There's something, yeah.
I mean, I feel this comes up, this comes up a lot.
Yeah, it's super annoying.
And I feel like this is happening,
I guess you brought a football,
I think it's happening everywhere where we're just in this
like weird phase of, it's like really short term minded
and you would think that looks like craziness,
but it actually looks very boring, you know?
- Yeah, it's very boring.
- Yeah, the thing with Hollywood
just like turning out sequels and stuff.
There has to be some like corrective thing that kicks in.
At some point, do these movies just start doing bad
or is it like?
- Haven't the Marvel movies started doing bad?
- Yes, they definitely pass their peak, for sure.
- Yeah, like there is a saturation point where people are like,
you know what, I don't care about Ant-Man 7.
Like I'm done with the story, I don't care.
Ant-Man was kind of a dumb character.
- But do you see what they're doing?
- No.
- I will say this worked on me.
- Oh no.
- So they're like, their headline thing
is like the Avengers movies, right?
And that series ended with like all the famous,
actors from the last 10 years,
like their stories ending and like their contracts basically.
So that's what they're kind of struggling now.
But they're making the next series of Avenger movies.
And the main bad guy in it, who's playing it,
Robert Downey Jr.
They just like brought him back as a different character.
- He was Iron Man.
Wait, he's gonna play the villain?
- Yeah.
- Is it like Iron Man became the villain or it's like,
no, just ignore the fact that this is Robert Downey.
- It could be like in a different dimension,
like Tony Stark went bad or it could just be,
he's a totally different person.
- Oh my goodness.
- Like at some Comic Con,
a bunch of these masked people showed up on stage.
And the one guy in the front removed his mask
and was Robert Downey Jr. and everyone went nuts.
And I'm like, yeah, like this is like another flavor
of this rebooting thing, whether we be the actor, you know?
- It's so nuts to me.
I don't know.
I wanna care about something.
I wanna like be into something that's worth being into.
Like when it comes to media,
I haven't watched stuff and forever.
- Yeah, we've really struggled too.
There is still some good stuff.
And even within the zone of like,
they're just like doing the IP thing.
Have you seen The Last of Us?
- No.
I've heard of it.
- I think I've heard of it.
- The Last of Us was a really good video game,
like narrative narratively.
It was like one of the best narratives in any video game ever.
And they made two games and HBO made a TV show.
They did one season of the first game
and now the second season is about to come out.
I think at the beginning of the next year.
Like phenomenally good.
Like really, really, really good.
- Give me like the TLDR.
Like what's the setting?
Is it sci-fi?
- It's a classic like post-apocalyptic thing.
Like some kind of, in this case, it wasn't a virus.
It was like a fungus and like destroyed society.
There's some people that are surviving.
And if you get even scratched or something,
you like turn into like this crazy zombie thing.
And they're just a girl that got scratched.
So everyone's like, you're fucked.
And they usually just kill them right away
before a reason they didn't kill her.
And she started to recover.
So this story is this really reluctant guy
who's like kind of like a,
he lost his own daughter like way at the beginning,
right when everything was going down in a really like crazy way.
And he's like reluctantly agreeing to take this girl
to some research facility like across the country.
So they travel across the country.
And it's like some of the most intense,
like hard to watch situations that they like run into.
And the acting is amazing.
Like everything is done really, really well.
And that's technically just like this IP shuffling thing,
but they did a really good job with it.
- Well, yeah, I guess it's not inherently bad to use IP.
But like our TV series, better than movies now,
is that like, I feel like the good stuff people talk about
are like HBO TV series.
They're not movies anymore, but they replace,
'cause they're all competing for the same attention, right?
Like, I don't view them differently.
If you have two hours to watch something,
you could watch two episodes of a series
or you could watch a movie.
- What's the difference?
- Yeah, I think the production quality of TVs
have gone up, TV shows have gone up a lot.
- 'Cause that was glaring.
Like 20 years ago or 10 years ago or whatever,
like TV series being so much lower budget.
Like the effects, everything about them,
they were limited, they had to almost be like a drama
to be any good, but that's changed.
- Yeah, it's changed a lot and it feels like the gap is closed,
but if you actually like,
'cause there's been some things that have been,
even like an animated TV show that gets a movie,
you're like, oh, what's the difference?
It's just like a two hour long episode.
But they actually look, yeah, there's still like a gap
if you like pay attention.
But like, obviously the gap is closing.
But I mean, now there's some shows,
mostly actually failures that,
like their budgets are like $30 million an episode.
- Oh, wow.
- Of an episode is one hour,
that's roughly the same budget as like a $100 million movie.
- Yeah.
- So yeah, the buds are closing in,
but they're still really good movies.
I still think the movie side,
they're still really good ones.
There's just a lot of junk on both sides, I think.
- That reminds me, so we still have like a family movie night.
I haven't watched any movies just on my own
that were good in a while,
but we watch like, we go back through
the Pixar catalog and all that.
We just went through all the Toy Stories
and I have something to say about like,
revisionist history here going back
to Toy Story 1 all the way through them.
I don't know if you realize how,
so I've read like the creativity ink.
Have you listened to a read that book about Pixar?
- I know the stories of,
I like know a bunch of stories from that book, yeah.
- Yeah.
So the first Toy Story, not very good.
I like, not just that they weren't,
they're technologically with the graphics.
I remembered, I thought like Pixar came on the scene,
just amazing at the storytelling, all that stuff.
It wasn't until like Toy Story 3,
I think it was three, the one where they go to the daycare,
that like the story was like,
maybe it just resonated with me in case we have kids,
but it was like heartstrings,
all the stuff you think about Pixar now
where they're so good at like emotional storytelling.
The first two, not so much.
It's like kids play with toys.
- I can see that, yeah.
Toy Story 3 came out the month that I graduated high school.
- Really, oh your parents just ripped their heart out
and stomp on it, 'cause that's like the whole story
'cause he's going off to college.
- Even for us as like, it was really intense,
even just for like--
- Oh, for the kids, like for high schoolers, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, it was really crazy.
- But I feel like, they went several years there,
those first couple where I don't feel like
they had the Pixar magic.
Maybe they did, maybe I'm just too critical
or I didn't resonate with the stories,
but it didn't feel nearly as Pixar
as a modern Pixar movie.
- I think they definitely got better at that.
And I think it's similar to video games
where it was such a technological effort at first
that like also executing on narrative on top of that
was really difficult, but then you've seen over time
that they're hitting like, video games are hitting
like movie levels of like narrative and acting.
And I think that probably suddenly happened
to animated stuff.
Have you noticed that every Pixar movie
in a lot of kids movies, the plot is we got lost,
we got to get home.
That's like the plot of so many kids movies.
- Yeah, that reminds me of Homeward Bound,
do you remember those?
- Yeah, not exactly, yep, yep.
That was the Finding Nemo, like it's the next story.
- Oh, Finding Nemo, it really is.
- Well, it really is.
- Wow, it really is, huh.
- Yeah, and obviously it's the stuff that happens
in between is different, but the rough,
you start off with your home, some mistake happens,
you're not home, then you have to get back home.
- Yeah.
- Hold on, it's fine, 'cause that's a reverse.
- Oh, he was home.
- Well, not the New York one, he was not where he wanted.
- That's true.
- He was away, he wanted to get back home.
- Yeah, no, no, no.
- But there's something universal about that, I guess.
We're just trying to find our way back home.
And I tried to stand deep there,
but that just sounded really cheesy.
- No, like what else?
Like I'm looking at the Pixar movies, Coco.
Again, he gets lost in the afterlife,
and he has to get back home.
Right to where he's different.
Have you seen Ratatouille?
- No.
- Ratatouille's very good.
It's very, very good.
- It's been cooking mice or rats.
- You're cooking us, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's actually really good.
- Yes.
- Okay, I need to go through all the Pixar movies.
I've just been watching that scene.
- The little girl gets lost in the monster world
and has to get back home.
- It literally is the plot of every movie, that's crazy.
- Was it the plot of Up 2?
Like they also get lost in the house.
- There's one that I'm trying to remember the whole plot,
but I know it's so painful.
- Up you just can't watch.
I couldn't watch it.
It was hard as a kid, and now I'm married.
- I'm getting sad just thinking about it.
Yeah, the mortality, oh, why'd you have to remind me?
I just don't even know that that movie exists.
That was Pixar too, huh?
Stinking Pixar, just crushing Oliver.
- Cars, also he gets lost and he has to get back.
- So I can't tell Teaches this.
I've just not been able to say, I've never seen cars,
and I know Teaches has a lot of cars in his orbit,
and I've just, I've never seen it.
I have nothing to say, I don't know anything about it.
- You should definitely watch the first one.
It's a classic. - Okay, good.
Yeah.
- I just forget all these franchises are Pixar.
They really are the best at this, right?
- Yeah, I think the thing that they do great is
it's a kids movie that's really entertaining as an adult,
so it's truly like a family movie.
It's like, there's like two things going on at once,
like two storylines, yeah.
- Yeah, and that way you're not bored as an adult, you know?
- Yep, oh, inside out another one.
I don't know if you saw the latest inside out.
- Yeah, I did, yeah, those movies are fun.
I've met Metaphor, it's brilliant,
and it just leads to like a lot of really funny,
funny things I can do with it.
- I will say, we watched that one,
and I couldn't help but notice that I am anxiety.
(laughing)
Casey and I talked about this, it's like, oh geez,
I'm watching that movie the first half,
and I didn't realize like, oh, this is bad.
You don't want to be like this little orange person.
I was like, this is, yeah, no, I agree.
You should definitely think through all this stuff.
- That's probably why, yes.
I didn't realize like she's kind of a bad guy.
Like, oh, this is not good.
And then it was like, oh, I let that little person
run my brain and I shouldn't got it.
- Yeah.
- That's the moral of the story.
- Have you noticed that when they zoom into the parents' brains
that a different emotion leads them?
- Oh, I didn't notice.
- Yeah, like for the main character's joy,
but then the dad, it's anger.
And then for the mom, it's sadness or like whatever.
- Interesting, like the joy is not the default leader.
That's really interesting.
Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, so the metaphors are so good
that they can like think through all these little things.
- Oh, yeah, I love those movies.
They're really brilliant.
And the core memories, all that stuff.
I feel like I've learned stuff about our brain
from watching those movies somehow.
(laughs)
- Yeah.
- Personality islands.
Okay, I really have to pee.
We also really need to record two episodes today.
- I'm just gonna call this one.
- I'm just gonna pull the curtain.
Yeah, we're gonna pull the curtain back.
We're gonna talk again immediately after this
and pretend like it's a new episode, a new week.
- Yeah, but they won't get to hear it till next week.
- That's right.
We're just gonna string this up.
Yeah, this one has a to be continued.
So-- - To be continued.
- This story is to be continued.
Okay, be right back.
- All right.
(upbeat music)
[BLANK_AUDIO]